---
title: Home
navigation: false
layout: page
main:
  fluid: false
---

::ellipsis{blur="150px" right="0px" width="75%"}
::

::block-hero
---
cta:
  - Get started
  - /introduction/overview
secondary:
  - Learn more →
  - /about-us
---
#title
Empower Your Sustainability Journey with Endura

#description
Endura is your digital exchange for private company Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) data in Africa. Whether you're just starting your sustainability journey or looking to enhance an established strategy, Endura provides the tools you need to set meaningful targets, measure impact, and benchmark your performance against local industry standards.

#extra
  :::list
  - **Comprehensive ESG Data** to track your impact across climate, labor, and social domains
  - **Tailored Insights** for strategic decision-making and improving sustainability performance
  - **Real-Time Reporting** with customizable ESG reports for stakeholders
  - **Benchmarking** against industry peers to stay competitive in the African market
  - **Enduring Partnerships** with businesses, financial institutions, and investment managers
  :::

#support
::

::card-grid
  :::card
  ---
  icon: gg:edit-fade
  ---
  #title
  ESG Data Management
  
  #description
  Track, manage, and report your ESG data with ease, tailored specifically for the African market.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: IconNuxtStudio
  ---
  #title
  Real-Time Reporting
  
  #description
  Generate real-time, customizable ESG reports to share with stakeholders and partners.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: logos:vue
  ---
  #title
  Sustainability Benchmarking
  
  #description
  Benchmark your ESG performance against local competitors and industry standards to stay ahead.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: simple-icons:markdown
  ---
  #title
  Tailored Insights
  
  #description
  Access insights and strategic recommendations to improve your sustainability impact.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: noto:rocket
  ---
  #title
  Collaborative Partnerships
  
  #description
  Build enduring partnerships with businesses, financial institutions, and investment managers across Africa.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: noto:puzzle-piece
  ---
  #title
  Get Started
  
  #description
  Begin your sustainability journey with Endura and unlock the potential of your ESG data.
  :::

#title
What's included

#root
  :::ellipsis{blur="140px" left="0px" top="10rem" width="40rem"}
  :::
::
