---
title: Climate
---
The climate analysis provides a company with an indication of the transition and physical risks inherent to their operations. This informs the expected level of risk mitigation and adaptation efforts that needed to manage such risks.

## Transition Risk:

### Approach:

Endura uses sectoral GHG intensities as a proxy for a company's emissions exposure.

### Source:

**Global Trade Analysis Database (GTAP)**

**What?**
It provides absolute figures on total economic output and GHG emissions for 65 sector and 141 countries. Uses data from UN Comtrade, IEA, EDGAR, and FAO.

**For each sector, the emissions capture based on:**

1. Scope:

- Scope 1: Emissions sources owned by the client company.
- Scope 2: Emissions from the electricity purchased by client company.
- Scope 3: Emissions from upstream value chain.

2. Local & imported:

- Scope 3 covers local and imported goods and services emissions.

3. Greenhouse gasses:

- Data covers carbon and non-carbon emissions.
- Adjustments are made for critical sectors from the FirstRand TCFD report where necessary.

Additionally, Endura assigns high-level risks to those sectors that are identified as climate-sensitive by the FirstRand Group.

### Output:

The tool will present GHG emissions for different scopes and a final emissions exposure score.

## Physical Risk:

### Approach:

- Look at location of company (or that of its major assets) and whether the company is active in a critical sector.
- Key sectors/economic activities exposed to physical climate risk from the World Bank Climate Risk Country profiles.

### Source

**ThinkHazard! provides risk levels for:**

- 52 municipalities
- 9 provinces
- 7 hazard types: Floods, coastal floods, cyclone, wildfire, landslide, water scarcity and extreme heat.

### Output:

After selecting the municipality/province of offices/major assests, the tool returns risk levels for 7 hazards and a single score.We also high-level risks to those sectors that are identified as climate-sensitive by the FirstRand Group.

The tool will present GHG emissions for different scopes and a final emissions exposure score.

## Climate Questionaire

**The climate questionaire assesses performance in relation to:**

1. Governance
2. Risk management
3. Strategy
4. Metrics & targets

