---
title: Risk Classification
---

## The Endura approach to risk classification:

The E\&S risk level and material ESG issues are identified based on the industry code capturing the company's economic activity. The function is based on two public sources which are both comprehensive, publicly available and developed by reputable institutions.

## The sources used:

### 1. E\&S risk: EBRD Environmental & Social Risk Categorisation List

#### Categories:

##### Environment includes:

- Any temporary or permanent changes to the landscape, atmosphere, soil, water, plants or animals caused by human activities.

##### Social includes:

- Labour standards and terms of employment
- Community impacts:
  - Public health, safety, security, gender equality, impacts on indigenous peoples and cultural heritage.
  - Health and safety
  - Disproportionate impacts on vulnerable groups/gender, involuntary resettlement and affordability of basic services.

##### Overall, it reflects a balanced assessment of:

- Combined environmental and social risks associated with the industry concerned.

#### Risk Levels:

High:

- The company's business activities may give risk to significant or long-term environmental and social risks and impacts.
- These require specialised risk assessment, and the customer may not have the technical or financial means to manage them.

Medium:

- The company's business activities have limited environmental and social risks and impacts.
- These are capable of being readily prevented or mitigated through technically and financially feasible measures.

Low:

- The company's business activities have minor/few environmental impacts associated with them.

### 2. Material issues: SASB Materiality Finder

##### What is the SASB Materiality map?

- It reveals the 26 sustainability issues that manifest accross 77 industries.
- SASB Standards identify those sustainability issues that are financially material to an industry.
- Material to understanding how a company creates enterprise value.
- These standards encompass environmental and social information as well as operational governance.

##### The SARB Standards:

- Environment: GHG emissions, air quality, energy management, water & waste management, waste & hazardous material management and ecological impacts
- Social capital: Human rights & community, relations, customer privacy, data security, access & affordability, product quality and safety, customer welfare, selling practices & product labelling
- Human capital: Labor practices, employee health & safety, employee engagement, diversity & inclusion
- Business model & innovation: Product design & lifecycle management, business model resilience, supply chain management, material sourcing & efficiency and physical impacts of climate change.
- Leadership & governance: Business ethics, competitive behavior, management of legal & regulatory environment, critical incident risk management and systemic risk management.

## Output

1. Environmental risk level + social risk level + overall E\&S risk level
2. Material environmental issues + Social issues
