---
title: Carbon calculator
---

## Methodology:

The carbon calculator takes the company activity (ie. electricity consumed) and multiplies it by the emissions factor.

## Sources:

### Scope 1:

**Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment (DFFE)**

The DFFE publishes a national GHG inventory report from which emission factors can be manually estimated.

**UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) GHG conversion factors**

While primarily designed for UK-based Organisations, their ready-to-use factors are suitable for international use in many cases and can be applied in South Africa when local data is unavailable.


**U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) GHG Emission Factors Hub**

Primarily designed for US-based Organisations, but many of their factors are suitable for South Africa.


The DFFE publishes a national GHG inventory report from which emission factors can be manually estimated.

Availability: Free and available online. However, there is almost a two-year delay in the availability of this data. For example, data for 2000 to 2022 was only published in February 2024. Manual calculations will be done, and the calculation methods will have to be audited to be repeatable.

UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) GHG conversion factors

While primarily designed for UK-based Organisations, their ready-to-use factors are suitable for international use in many cases and can be applied in South Africa when local data is unavailable.

Availability: Free, available online, kept up-to-date, and relatively simple to integrate with systems.

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) GHG Emission Factors Hub

Primarily designed for US-based Organisations, but many of their factors are suitable for South Africa.

Availability: Free, available online, and regularly updated. Not as user-friendly as DEFRA.

### Scope 2:

### Scope 3:
