---
title: Carbon Calculator
---

## Methodology:

The carbon calculator takes the company activity (ie. electricity consumed) and multiplies it by the emissions factor.

## Sources:

### Scope 1:

**Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment (DFFE)**

The DFFE publishes a national GHG inventory report from which emission factors can be manually estimated.

**UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) GHG conversion factors**

While primarily designed for UK-based Organisations, their ready-to-use factors are suitable for international use in many cases and can be applied in South Africa when local data is unavailable.

**U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) GHG Emission Factors Hub**

Primarily designed for US-based Organisations, but many of their factors are suitable for South Africa.

### Scope 2:

**Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Emission Factor Database (EFDB)**

This database offers emission factors for various sectors, including energy, industrial processes, waste, and agriculture, which can be applied at the national level.

**GHG Protocol databases and tools**

The Greenhouse Gas Protocol offers a range of calculation tools and guidance for developing comprehensive GHG inventories, but the emission factors are derived from primary sources such as the IPCC.

**International Energy Agency (IEA) Emissions Factors Database**

The IEA offers emission factors for South Africa, particularly for CO2 emissions from fuel combustion.

**Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment (DFFE)**

The DFFE publishes annual Grid Emission Factors Reports for South Africa, which contain up-to-date emission factors for electricity generation.

**Eskom**

Eskom publishes annual integrated reports that summarise their performance, including total electricity sold and the expected total carbon emissions. From this, two types of emission factors are calculated that can be used to estimate GHG emissions from national grid electricity use.

## Starter calculator

## Advanced calculator
