---
title: Endura Orientation
Navigation: true
---
## **Navigation**

**Top Navigation Bar:**

**Dashboard:** The Dashboard serves as your main control panel within the Endura platform, offering easy access to key functionalities and information. **Users:** Manage user access and permissions. **Modules:** Access and complete the various ESG modules available in the platform. **Entities:** Navigate to the Entities page where you can manage and create entities.

**Entity: Managing Multiple Entities**

The Entity Switch functionality allows admin users to easily switch between different entities they are managing, directly from the dashboard. This feature is particularly useful for users overseeing multiple divisions or business units, enabling them to manage data for different entities without needing to log out or navigate complex menus.

**Where to Find the Entity Switch**

**Location:** The entity switch is located at the top-right of the navigation bar, next to your user profile icon. **Dropdown List:** Clicking on the currently selected entity name reveals a dropdown menu displaying the other entities you have access to. **How to Switch Entities**

- Click on the Entity Dropdown located in the navigation bar.
- A list of all the entities you are assigned to will appear in the dropdown.
- Select the desired entity (e.g., "Test Division 0911-1") by clicking on its name.
- The page will refresh, and the dashboard will update to reflect the context of the selected entity.

**Refreshing Entities:** If recent changes were made to an entity and it does not reflect immediately, you can click the Refresh button from the dropdown list to reload the page with updated information.

**Important Notes:** Permissions: You can only switch between entities that have been assigned to you and where you have the necessary permissions. Context Update: After switching entities, all dashboards, reports, and data displayed will be specific to the selected entity. Be sure to verify that you are managing the correct entity before making any updates.

**Profile and Notifications**

**Profile Icon (Top-right Corner):** This circle shows your initials or profile picture. Clicking on it allows you to manage your account settings, billing information, log out, or switch between different profiles if applicable.

**Notifications:** Access your recent notifications by clicking the bell icon.