---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
navigation: true
---

**Q: What is Endura?**: Endura is a digital platform designed to help businesses in Africa manage and report their ESG data effectively.

**Q: How do I sign up for Endura?**: You can sign up by visiting our website and clicking on the "Get Started" button. Follow the prompts to create your account.

**Q: Can I customize my ESG reports?**: Yes, Endura allows you to fully customize your ESG reports to meet your specific business needs.

**Q: How does benchmarking work?**: Benchmarking in Endura allows you to compare your ESG performance against local competitors and industry standards.

**Q: Why do I need to include revenue on the profile page?**: This information is required to identify company size and in some cases for calculations relevant to the carbon calculator module. This is merely used for comparative purposes. Information is not visible in any outputs of the platform and will not be shared.

**Q: Will my data be shared with third parties?**: As a user of the platform, you can control who has access to your data via a permissions setting.

**Q: Will my data be visible to others?**: As a user of the platform, you can control who has access to your data via a permissions setting.

**Q: How is my rating or score calculated?**: The scoring is based on a subjective rating method that is based on international reporting standards. It uses client specific inputted data and external data sources to output an ESG score. 

**Q: Is ESG reporting mandatory in South Africa?**: ESG Reporting is not yet mandatory in South Africa. Stakeholder expectations, supply chain requirements and the introduction of new standards eg. ISSB S1 and S2 Sustainability Disclosure Standards has seen a shift to voluntary reporting.

**Q: How safe is my data on the Endura platform?**: The Endura platform is secured by...

**Q: How can my reports be customised?**: Endura allows clients to customize their reports according to their business and the ESG data that the client has available. 

**Q: How was the scoring methodology developed?**: The scoring methodology was developed for FirstRand by an international sustainability consulting firm in conjunction with the IFC. Validated by EY/PWC

**Q: What makes Endura different to competitors in the ESG data market**: Endura caters to the private markets and is the first of its kind in Africa. It invites users to input their data once and share it with multiple stakeholders. Endura considers the different levels of maturity of its users, providing options to those who are just starting out on their sustainability journey to those who are already advanced. Endura includes multiple functionalities including the ability to capture, track and benchmark data including a Carbon Calculator for those wanting to calculate their carbon footprint.

**Q: How often can and should I update my ESG data?**: Annually? Require guidance here. 

**Q: What are the system requirements for using the platform?**: Clients only require access to the internet to use the Endura platform. 

**Q: Do I need to pay for use of the platform?**: Clients only require access to the internet to use the Endura platform. 

**Q: How can I get help with the platform?**: Clients only require access to the internet to use the Endura platform. 

**Q: How does this hold up to international standards?**: The Endura modules have been designed in alignment with international standards and frameworks e.g. SASB, CDP, IFRS and the GHG protocols. The modules have been developed by both African and International sustainability experts with technical consultation from the IFC.

**Q: What does Endura mean?**: The name Endura envokes the spirit of endurance, reflecting a commitment to long-term sustainability. Our logo features a butterfly and a ripple effect, symbolizing the profound impact of small, persistent actions. The butterfly effect illustrates how minor actions can lead to significant changes over time, while the ripple effect signifies how sustainable actions can lead to expanding circles of positive influence.

**Q: Can we integrate Endura/Endura data into existing systems?**: Yes, with the client's permission, Endura data can be integrated into the bank's existing systems. 

**Q: What is ESG?**: ESG stands for Environmental, Social and Governance. ESG is a framework that helps takeholders understand how an organization is managing risks and opportunities related to environmental, social, and governance factors.ESG takes the holistic view that sustainability extends beyond just environmental issues. (CFI definition)

Environmental Factors include:
Those factors relating to the natural world e.g. the use of sustainable resources, renewable resources, biodiversity, waste disposal practices

Social Factors include:
Those factors impacting the lives of humans e.g. how a company manages its employees, suppliers, customers and communities that it operates in. Diversity and inclusion, product safety, labour practices etc

Governance Factors include:
A company's leadership structure, management processes, executive pay, internal controls etc.



For more questions, please visit our [Support](../support/contact-support) page.
